Example using Zachary Karate Club network with the faction as the outcome
binary variable.

Results should resemble these (from MPNet):

The faction (colour coded in the karate.pdf, which the
script generates) isx the outcome attribute, as well as some randomly
generated other node attributes. 'H' is Mr Hi and 'A' is John A, so
faction 1 (Mr Hi's faction) is orange and faction 2 (John A.'s
faction) is blue.

First, a very simple model with just density, activity, and contagion,
shows that (as we might expect from the figure), the outcome attribute
(faction as recorded by Zachary) is 'contagious' - which is just to
say an actor is more likely to be in faction 2 (recoded for the ALAAM
as faction1 = 0, faction2 = 1) if his/her neighbours are.:

   Effects    Lambda  Parameter Stderr  t-ratio  SACF
   DensityA   2.0000  0.3809    0.906   0.080    0.675
   ActivityA  2.0000 -0.7975    0.292   0.069    0.692 *
   ContagionA 2.0000  1.4523    0.400   0.068    0.689 *

Note that Activity is also significant (and negative) indicating that
members of John A.'s faction are more likely to be connected to others
(this probably isn't that meaningful in this context, but it is needed
as a baseline in the model).)  Next I tried blindly putting all the
structural configurations in the model (not generally a good idea). I
have to update/start a few times and it takes a while, but after a few
goes we can see it still hasn't converged and the estimates are moving
towards infinity so that model is no good - unsurprisingly perhaps
that was not a good idea.  However if we just add T3 (contagion within
triangles) only, we get another converged model (but nothing else
significant - apparently there is no effect of contagion within groups
significantly above that of simple contagion - or we haven't the power
to detect it if there is):

   Effects    Lambda   Parameter Stderr  t-ratio  SACF
   DensityA    2.0000   1.2707   2.096   0.018    0.544
   ActivityA   2.0000  -1.3135   0.936   0.018    0.548
   ContagionA  2.0000   1.9696   0.653   0.025    0.541 *
   Ego-2StarA  2.0000   0.0596   0.124   0.021    0.547
   TA3A        2.0000  -0.4894   0.487   0.035    0.506


Doing a goodness-of-fit this looks good (all the t-ratios, the last
column, are smaller than .3 in magnitude)

  DensityA       18.0000 18.7050   12.820 -0.055
  ActivityA      80.0000 83.6010   65.335 -0.055
  ContagionA     35.0000 36.7290   32.525 -0.053
  Ego-2StarA    271.0000 282.9350 244.567 -0.049
  Alter-2Star1A 566.0000 566.5240 423.733 -0.001
  Alter-2Star2A 219.0000 237.3880 213.137 -0.086
  TA1A           57.0000 69.9890   57.867 -0.224
  TA2A           55.0000 61.7950   55.942 -0.121
  TA3A           18.0000 18.8110   17.690 -0.046
  Mahalanobis distance = 503
  Maximum qasi-autocorrelation in absolute value = 12785552.008



Notice however that the standard deviation of these network statistics
(second-last column) is very large, indicating that although the
simulated networks have a distribution that includes the observed
statistic in the confidence interval, the confidence interval is very
large, a hint that maybe this model is not so good, and/or we have
very low power...  something we should in this case not really be
surprised by, as we have used the faction as our outcome, and (as is
very obvious from the figure, and the whole point that this example is
usually used for) the two factions form quite distinct network
communities - while we have tried to predict the outcome (faction)
purely from local network structures - something that seems unlikely
to succeed. So although our model correctly concludes that being in
John A.'s faction (the outcome here) is 'contagious', there really is
a lot more going on at a structural level that our model does not
capture. So using the simulation mode to simulate outcome attributes
from the model, we find for example that the density statistic (count
of nodes with outcome attribute 1, which is the nodes in John A.'s
faction in our example), ranges from 0 to 34 with std. deviation 12.2
- so although the mean is near the true value (18), the error is huge,
and indeed the 95% confidence interval includes the entire possible
range of values (0 to 34, the number of nodes). (Similar is true for
all the networks statistics as can be seen in the GoF output). And
more particularly the model does not capture the obvious (from the
figure) property that the factions are network communities.

Karate club data citation:

 Zachary, W. W. (1977). An information flow model for conflict and
 fission in small groups. Journal of anthropological research,
 33(4), 452-473.

igraph citations:

 Gabor Csardi (2015). igraphdata: A Collection of Network Data Sets
 for the 'igraph' Package. R package version 1.0.1.
 https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=igraphdata

 Csardi G, Nepusz T: The igraph software package for complex network
 research, InterJournal, Complex Systems 1695. 2006. http://igraph.org


ADS
Mon, Feb 17, 2020  1:00:18 PM
